cap-async-std/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1><code>cap-async-std</code></h1>

  <p>
    <strong>Capability-based version of `async-std`</strong>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/sunfishcode/cap-async-std/actions?query=workflow%3ACI"><img src="https://github.com/sunfishcode/cap-async-std/workflows/CI/badge.svg" alt="build status" /></a>
  </p>
</div>

This crate provides a capability-based version of [`async-std`]. It provides all the
interfaces you are used to, but in a capability-based version.

This is a very simplistic port of [`cap-std`] to `async-std`. Key `fs` functions
including opening files still use synchronous API calls. Quite a few comments still
talk about `std` rather than `async-std`.

See the [`cap-std` README.md] for more information about capability-based security.

[`async-std`]: https://docs.rs/async_std/
[`cap-std`]: https://docs.rs/cap_std/
[`cap-std` README.md]: https://github.com/sunfishcode/cap-std/blob/main/README.md

**It is a work in progress and many things aren't implemented yet.**

Commit message:

Documentation updates (#60)
* Fix a typo in a comment.

* Add more documentation about current status.

* Remove redundant .gitignore.

* Remove question marks in TODOs where we know we want to do.

* Wrap README.md at 80 columns for readability.

* Add a note about why we hold file handles open.

* Improve wayfinding comments.

* Mention that modifying the settings of the host process is another alternative.

* Update `open_parent`'s doc comment.

* Fix a typo in a comment.

* Add more not-yet-implemented comments.

* Link to cap-async-std in the top-level README.md.

* Remove a redundant "cap-async-std doesn't have try_clone" comment.

* Fix typos in comments.

* Add a module-level comment for open_parent.rs.

* Comment cleanups in `open_parent.rs`

* Set up a docs.rs logo!

cap-async-std/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1><code>cap-async-std</code></h1>

  <p>
    <strong>Capability-based version of `async-std`</strong>
  </p>

  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/sunfishcode/cap-async-std/actions?query=workflow%3ACI"><img src="https://github.com/sunfishcode/cap-async-std/workflows/CI/badge.svg" alt="build status" /></a>
  </p>
</div>

This crate provides a capability-based version of [`async-std`]. It provides all the
interfaces you are used to, but in a capability-based version.

This is a very simplistic port of [`cap-std`] to `async-std`. Key `fs` functions
including opening files still use synchronous API calls. Quite a few comments still
talk about `std` rather than `async-std`.

See the [`cap-std` README.md] for more information about capability-based security.

[`async-std`]: https://crates.io/crates/async-std
[`cap-std`]: https://crates.io/crates/cap-std
[`cap-std` README.md]: https://github.com/sunfishcode/cap-std/blob/main/README.md

At the moment, `cap-async-std` is a very rudimentary translation of `cap-std` to
`async-std`. Like `cap-std`, it uses [`cap-primitives`] to perform the underlying
operations. It hasn't yet been optimized to make effective use of `async`.

The filesystem module, `fs`, is known to compile on Linux, macOS, and FreeBSD, and
probably can be easily ported to other modern Unix-family platforms. Ports to
Windows and WASI platforms are in development, though not yet usable.

The networking module, `net`, is not yet usable.

[`cap-primitives`]: https://crates.io/crates/cap-primitives
